Sanctuary Worlds Update #5: Get Up and Get Down With the Sickness

Whelp, it finally happened, I couldn't dodge it forever. It's been nearly three years since Covid first took root in society and I *finally* caught it. My housemate went to a work conference and brought covid back with them. I've spent most of this week coughing and being unable to breathe clearly, which makes work difficult. However, I did get some good stuff done over this last two weeks, so let's discuss it!

As of Tuesday the 25th, I've basically finished the Sanctuary Worlds mech roster, at least in terms of chassis. The final count of chassis is 42 and the number of variants is 168. It sounds like a lot, but it's actually not. The Clans right now in BTA have 367 variants total, for instance. Now, admittedly, most Clan chassis have 6-8 variants because they're omnimechs with lots of variants and the Sanctuary Worlds are not omnis and only have 4 variants per chassis right now. I do think I'll be adding more variants to each chassis but right now I'm sort of tired of making mechs and want to do anything else for awhile. The new chassis since last update include the Embrasure, the Crusher, the Swooping Falcon, the Leaper, the Lambda, the Liquidator, the Screecher, the Scrapper, and the Blaze. 

In terms of what's coming next, the first thing on my radar is a Patron-only preview of the tech and mechs. I'll be putting that together over on Discord here in the coming days (as I recover from covid) so if you're not over on Discord yet, come on over so you can get the preview. I'll be taking feedback and making balance changes based on your feedback, so be sure to get the preview and be the first people to get hands on with the Sanctuary Worlds! 

After the preview is out in the wild, I'm gonna start making their planets I think and start planning the events in the Sanctuary Worlds "storyline". Maybe taking a break in there to work on their tanks (woo, more units). Meanwhile I'll be responding to feedback on their gear and mechs and making balance changes and such as necessary. Busy weeks ahead!

Anyways, that's all I got today folks. I'll make an announcement when the preview is up on Discord so be sure to come check it out! Have a good one, and stay safe out there. Covid ain't no joke and sucks to catch (first-hand experience here), so make sure you don't get it!

BD