Sorcerer  1A
StarCorps Industries’s Project: SORCERER was shrouded in such secrecy that the first Sorcerer Battlemechs just seemed to appear in Star League Defense Force ranks where they were met with varying degrees of suspicion. The 95-ton Sorcerer 1A is built around a PlasmaStar 380XL engine to propel it to a respectable 64.8km/h which enables the Sorcerer to bring its arsenal and Guardian ECM Suite to the enemy. The design carries a pair of Ceres Arms Smasher PPCs, a pair of Donal Snub-Nose PPCs, a pair of Magna MkII Medium Lasers, and a Magna MkI Small Laser. A staggering twenty Double Heat Sinks is barely enough to keep the weapons’ heat generation in check.
 
Sorcerer  1B
Shortly after the Sorcerer 1A began walking off of the StarCorps Industries production lines on Fletcher, the Sorcerer 1B began production in the satellite facility on Crofton.  The 1B variant trades in the array of PPCs and Lasers for a Blankenburg Technologies ER PPC, a pair of Artemis IV-enhanced Holly LRM15s, and a trio of Defiance P5M Medium Pulse Lasers. The reduced Heat generation of this payload allowed designers to remove the five external Double Heat Sinks and freed up room for CASE in the right torso.
 
Sorcerer 1C
Despite being designed for Urban and close-quarters warfare, the Sorcerer 1C variant drops the pair Snub-Nosed PPCs of the original Sorcerer 1A in favor of the easier-to-obtain Blankenburg Large Pulse Lasers. Less surprisingly, the 1A’s PPC and laser complement is replaced by a quartet of Magna 400P Medium Pulse Lasers and a pair of Holly Streak SRM2s. The Sorcerer 1C dedicates eight tons to mount four Pitban LFT-50 jump jets to propel it 120 meters in short bursts and utilizes only sixteen Double Heat Sinks.

Sorcerer 1CC
Of the relatively few Sorcerers built before the Amaris Coup, the Sorcerer 1CC variant was considered an exceptionally rare design. Originally planned as a replacement for the 90 ton Cyclops, it quickly became apparent that the design teams at StarCorps Industries were not going to be able to best its incredible computer systems. Rather than spending several more decades of development, the design team decided that modifying the Sorcerer 1A would be a suitable method to cut corners. The 1CC drops the Snub-Nose PPCs, lasers and five Double Heat Sinks in order to mount an additional Ceres Arms Smasher PPC, a quintet of Magna 400P Medium Pulse Lasers, and the advanced Command Console.
 
Sorcerer IIC
Despite suffering tremendous attrition during the Amaris Civil War, a handful of Sorcerer Battlemechs found themselves being loaded up for Kerensky’s exodus. During the Golden Century, the Sorcerer found new life as the Sorcerer IIC and could be found, in small quantities, in garrison units across the Clans. The Sorcerer IIC is upgraded with a Clan-Tech 380XL engine, ECM Suite, and Double Heat Sinks. Additionally, the PPC’s are upgraded to Clan-Tech extended range models and the torso-mounted Snub-Nose PPCs and lasers are replaced by a pair of Artemis IV-enhanced LRM20s fed by five tons of ammunition.
 
Sorcerer 2D
Like many designs lost during the Succession Wars, the Sorcerer design saw new life in the decades after the discovery of the Helm Memory Core. The Draconis Combine was the first to create a new variant of the aged SLDF design utilizing technologies at their disposal in 3058. The Sorcerer 2D retains the 380XL Engine, Guardian ECM Suite, one of the original PPCs, and thirteen of the original Double Heat Sinks and adds a pair of Shigunga MRM40s fed by four tons of ammo. A Small Laser is also added to the right arm for anti-personnel work.
 
Sorcerer 2L
Like many designs lost during the Succession Wars, the Sorcerer design saw new life in the decades after the discovery of the Helm Memory Core. The Capellan Confederation began production of their own variant in 3062. The Sorcerer 2L retains the 380XL Engine, Guardian ECM Suite, arm-mounted PPCs, and fifteen of the original Double Heat Sinks; the design adds a pair of Ceres Arms Plasma Rifles with three tons of ammunition, a quartet of Diverse Optics Sunbeam ER Medium Lasers, and a pair of Sunglow Prism-Optic Small Pulse Lasers.
