Dane Sacellum

Lore Blurb: One of the original powers in the Sanctuary Worlds, the Dane Sacellum was patterned off of an ancient Terran religion and is deeply spiritual as a whole. The ruler of the Sacellum is known as the High Lord and is advised by the Conclave, a group of elected religious officials who help manage the Sacellum in general. Day-to-day management typically falls to religious community leaders who advise individual Daners on their actions. The Sacellum's military is known as the Dane Phalanx and is highly regimented and organized.

Capital World: Minerva
Ruler: High Lord Temil Dane
Military: Dane Phalanx
Secret Service: The Otacustes


Jacobson Haven

Lore Blurb: One of the original powers in the Sanctuary Worlds, the Jacobson Haven was originally a representative democracy but very quickly that turned into a veneer only as crime families took over and formed shadowy syndicates that really run the state. It possesses no unified military, instead each prominent family provides soldiers for any given military effort. The families spend as much time fighting each other as they do the other Sanctuary Worlds powers, but given their immense personal wealth and formidable militias, the Haven has endured. Havenfolk, as they're known, enjoy only as much freedom as they can buy which, while bad for the commonfolk, is excellent for soldiers of fortune and mercenaries.

Capital World: Capone
Ruler: Governor Alexander Jacobson (ceremonial); Haven Families (actual)
Military: Haven Militias
Secret Service: Various


Mallard Republic

Lore Blurb: One of the original powers in the Sanctuary Worlds, the Mallard Republic was based on the old Terran republics of pre-spaceflight history. Governed by an elected body of the people called the Mallard Senate, the Republic has proven itself slow to act and burdened with bureaucracy. The army of the Republic, the Mallard Republic Armed Forces, is similarly clunky but is buoyed by the Republic's cutting-edge science and technology development programs which have kept the Republic competitive with its rivals for centuries. Additionally, the high quality of life and many freedoms in the Republic keep its people satisfied even with the bureaucracy weighing things down.

Capital World: Schwellenbach
Ruler: President Richard Mallard
Military: The Grand Army of the Republic
Secret Service: Republic Intelligence Agency


Sanctuary Alliance

Lore Blurb: The Sanctuary Alliance is a conglomeration of the three main Sanctuary Worlds powers: the Dane Sacellum, the Mallard Republic, and the Jacobson Haven, formed for the purpose of waging a pre-emptive war against the Taurian Concordat. Their precise motives and goals remain unclear as they have made minimal efforts towards communication with the Inner Sphere.

Capital World: Hoplon
Ruler: Marshal of the Alliance Elizabeth O'Neil
Military: Army of the Alliance
Secret Service: The Prying Eyes